Welcome to the
eLearning session,
Getting Started with
Ensemble, Adding Activities
to a Business Process.
In this session, we
will look in more detail
at some of the most
common BPL activities.
An Ensemble Process
does not directly
interact with
external applications,
but sends requests to
Business Operations
that are designed to interface
with the external applications.
A Business Process
can also send requests
to other Business Processes.
The call activity is
probably used more
than any other activity.
It allows the Business
Process to send a message
and receive one in response
from another Business Process
or Business Operation.
Receiving a primary request from
either another Business Process
or a Business Service starts
the Business Process and returns
a primary response if needed.
The call activity sends
its own call request
to another Business Process
or Business Operation,
receiving a call
response in return.
The properties of a call
request and call response
are only available to
this call activity.
Use the Context object
for properties needed
outside of this call activity.
Let's take a look at a sample
Production in the Management
portal and discuss the Business
Process and its related
components.
Here's an Ensemble Production
for order processing.
We're going to
take a closer look
at the CompositeOrderProcess
in just a minute.
This is the Business Process
that we will examine.
While this Business Process is
called CompositeOrderProcess,
you can see that the actual
class for the Business Process
is DEF.Production.OrderProcess.
We can also see the
various components
that this Business
Process works with.
A message coming in from
the CompositeOrderService
starts the
CompositeOrderProcess,
which will then make calls
to the ReStockProcess
as well as the Business
Operations, Inventory,
OrderProcessing, and PriceList.
Let's take a closer look at
the CompositeOrderProcess.
When we first start
this Business Process
on the receipt of a
composite order request,
we first check inventory.
This is a call to the
Inventory Business Operation.
If we take a quick look back
at our Ensemble Production,
we can see that the
CompositeOrderProcess indeed
makes a call to the
Inventory Business Operation.
We are checking
inventory here, utilizing
some Context properties, a
specific message type that
will be sent to the
Inventory Business Operation,
getting a response back,
and setting a value
from that response back into
Context so that we can then
test conditionally to see
if there is sufficient stock
in order to place the order.
We do a simple test
using a calculation
to determine if there is enough
quantity to place the order.
If there is sufficient stock,
we will then place the order
by sending a message to the
OrderProcessing Business
Operation, the CheckPrice
Business Operation,
and we have a rule for
determining the shipping price.
On the other hand, if there
is insufficient stock,
then the order will be rejected.
In either case, we
build a response
using the information we've
received from checking
the stock and placing the
order, and we force a reply back
to the Business Service.
Once we finish
with that, we check
to see if we need to restock.
And if we have to
restock this product,
we call the ReStock
Business Process.
The "if" activity is
a true-false branch.
If you require more than two,
you can use a "switch" instead,
which will allow you to have
as many branches as needed,
just like you would in a "case"
statement in many programming
languages.
In the case of a
switch, the conditional
is put on the connector to
the individual activities
that you are branching to.
From time to time, you may find
the need for Caché ObjectScript
code within your
Business Process.
To support that, we
have a code activity.
The foreach allows
you to repeat actions.
Foreach will loop over a
Caché object list collection
or an array.
Throw and catch
and catch all allow
you to do some error handling.
As you can see, there
are many activities
to make your Business
Process very robust.
You have been watching
Getting Started with Ensemble,
Adding Activities to
a Business Process.